# A semblance of assembly
Learning an assembly language is very helpful for understanding machine operations at a low level, and knowing the ways that that machine translates expressive lines of C source (for example) into individual instructions can help one write more efficient code.
Unfortunately, most tools dedicated to compilers and assembly languages are geared towards experts, and there are relatively few resources available to those trying to learn assembly from scratch.

The purpose of this project is to develop an interactive, browser-based explorer for C90 and x86-64 that illustrates the relationships between source and assembly and provides easy access to information about different assembly mnemonics and registers.
A similar project developed by Matt Godbolt can be found at http://gcc.godbolt.com -- this appears to focus more on comparing the assembly generated by different compilers, while this tool is aimed more at teaching assembly language patterns and concepts to those unfamiliar.

Special thanks to Bob Dondero for his advising during this project, and the x86-64 resources he developed for Princeton's COS217: Systems Programming.

# Progress
* Boilerplate for uploading a file to the server
* Render uploaded source file in template
* Perform source-assembly line-matching on backend
* Compiled dictionary of assembly mnemonics in static/ref.json

# TODO
* Parse assembly on backend: identify addressing modes, registers, mnemonics, labels
* Determine format for returning assembly, perhaps a table? five columns: label mnem arg1 arg2 [arg3]
* Determine format for tooltips; probably best to do lookups server-side, render them in html and control visibility with :hover
* Parse DWARF format for debug info, specifically matching local variables to stack offsets, arguments to registers, etc.

# Limitations
* At this point the project will be restricted to the same subset of x86-64 used by Princeton's COS217.  Specifically this excludes floating point arithmetic and assumes that functions take no more than six arguments, and that structs are not passed as arguments.
